task3shell26437929.c            User Commands              task3shell26437929.c

NAME
      task3shell - very rudimentary command-line interpreter running in
                   a ioL console with graphical shell

DESCRIPTION
      task3shell
        - displays current directory, its files, and the type of each
          file (color icons), two buttons, error handing window (whenever error
          occurs), and accepts the clicks of all the buttons (Left Mouse Button
          click), where the program automatically detects the purpose of user's
          selection.
        - improved version of the original task2shell with added functionality:
          supports the Right Mouse Button (RMB) click on non-directory files,
          where the options such as copy, cut, and delete appear at the bottom
          of the application.

COMPILATION & EXECUTION
      Open your terminal (by default in Ubuntu Mate: right click within the
      folder -> Open in Terminal) where the file task3shell26437929.c is
      located. Enter the following command:
         gcc task3shell26437929.c -o exec;iol -- ./exec

TYPE OF BUTTONS & PURPOSE
      Orange Button (Left Mouse Button)
         Indicates that the file is a directory. This button updates current
         directory to directory selected, and re-prints the files of the new
         directory location. If there is no permission to access the directory,
         the appropriate error is displayed in the error box (visible when
         error occurs only)
      Green Button (Left Mouse Button)
         Indicates that the file is a executable non-directory file. This button
         executes the file by running the program in a new 'xterm' terminal
         window.
      Blue Button (Left Mouse Button)
         Indicates that the file is an ordinary non-directory file (for example
         a text file). This button displays the contents of specified text file
         in a new 'xterm' terminal window using 'less' utility.
      Green & Blue Buttons (Right Mouse Button)
         Activates options such as copy, cut and paste at the bottom of the
         application.
      Copy Button & Cut Buttons
         Whenever the button is clicked, the data gets copied, the paste button
         appears, and the option menu remains opened until the paste button
         is clicked.
      Paste Button
         If copy or cut is clicked, the file gets pasted, and if cut is clicked,
         then original file gets deleted. If the file exists at the destination
         path, then it gets renames to "copy of <filename>". At the end, this
         button closes the copy, cut, and paste menu.
      Back Button
         ioL console sends the command to the system go one folder back.
      Parent Directory Button
         ioL console sends the command to the system, which indicates that the
         system needs to return to the main folder from where the program has
         been executed.
      Close Button (top right corner of the ioL console)
         ioL console sends the command to the system, which indicates the
         termination of the program.

ASSUMPTIONS
      installed software
         iol must be installed in order to run the compiler
      current directory.
         by default, the current directory is the same as the location of
         task3shell.
      copy or cut file
         selected file for copying or cutting is not a directory; otherwise,
         the menu remains closed.
      paste button
         disappears if cut or copy buttons are not pressed.

EXTRA FUNCTIONALITY
      Orange, Green & Blue Buttons
         display error whenever access to the directory or a a file is
         not granted.
      Orange & Blue Buttons
         shell does not wait for the these files to finish, allowing the
         user to continue selecting files while the file is being viewed
         or executed in the other window
      Blue Button
         in order to prevent shell from jamming, the user is allowed to select
         the text file with the size less than 500kb. If the file is greater
         than 500kb, error will be displayed.
      Current Directory
         current directory is displayed each time the new directory is
         accessed. Back button has been added to allow the user to go/return
         to the previous folder
      file type
         task3shell displays the type of each file. The type of the file can be
         differentiated via the colors of the icons: Orange, Blue, and Green
         (refer to "TYPES OF BUTTONS & PURPOSE" to read more about these icons)
      option menu even handler
         whenever RMB on file is detected, copy, cut, and paste menu is
         opened. However, if none of the options are selected (copy, cut, or
         paste), and another file or a directory is clicked, the menu
         disappears.
      paste button permissions
         whenever the file gets copied or cut, the original permission remains
         the same.

LIMITATIONS
     Orange, Green & Blue Buttons
         when permission to a file/directory is not granted, shell is not
         able to provide access to the file/directory, therefore user needs
         to find the way to make the file/directory available in order to
         access it
     Blue Button
         not able to open the text file if the file size is larger than
         500kb; instead prints appropriate error.
     Sort by the Button Type
         this feature has not been introduced due to not being part of
         requirement
     Copy & Cut Buttons
         these commands are not allowed to be performed on directories, thefore
         RMB (Right Mouse Button) click will not show any action

REFERENCE
     getChmod() function - paste button permissions:
         Construidor (November, 2013). Stack overflow: Is there a C function to
         get permissions of a file?. Retrieved from:
         https://stackoverflow.com/questions/20238042/is-there-a-c-function-to-
         get-permissions-of-a-file
